# Portfolio
This repository contains my portfolio and interview questions. [View my portfolio](https://ellaliuu.github.io/Portfolio/html5up-massively/) 

## How will you continue learning about computer science?
With the ever so growing field of computer science and our continuous progression into a digital world, there has been a huge surge in resources available to learn about computer science. It is essential to learn the theoretical aspects of computer science in topics such as programming, computer architecture, algorithms, data structures, math, operating systems, computer networking, databases, languages, compilers and many more to have a solid foundation and tools for when creating projects. It is equally essential to put those skills to use in projects to be able to develop the skills of becoming a stronger and more efficient programmer. Nowadays you can find many free online computer science courses such as the ones used in our course for Khan Academy and FreeCodeCamp. But of course, there are many traditional school courses offered in these topics as well. Some other tools available consist of online bootcamps and even tutorials on YouTube. After developing a solid foundation, students are able to truly expand their problem solving and computer science skills when using their skills in action while programming their own projects or getting involved in events such as Hackathons.

Personally, I have found that over the course of my high school education, I have been able to develop a basic foundation for my understanding of computer science by completing the Khan Academy Computer Programming and the FreeCodeCamp Responsive Web Design and JavaScript Algorithms and Data Structures modules. With that I want to continue grow my knowledge of the theoretical side my taking a few post-secondary computer science courses as well as using online programs such as FreeCodeCamp to expand my knowledge. After completing my Creative Coding Session assignment, I found an appreciation for Professor’s Dan Shiffman’s Coding Challenges as I found myself learning the most valuable lessons about computer science while I was doing it in action, rather than just reading articles. For example, when doing the mad libs challenge, I was really able to see how different JS libraries and accessing crowdsourced data worked. With that, I’m planning and starting some independent projects for myself to challenge and grow my abilities as a programmer and to be able to develop the thinking and problem-solving skills necessary to build more complex programs. 

## Summarize your experience with Khan Academy.
Khan Academy is an online learning resource that is free and available to students to get an introduction towards computer science and programming. Notably, in their computer programming course they focus on JS, HTML & CSS to build webpages and also data management. In the AP®︎ Computer Science Principles they cover briefly a wide array of computer science topics seen in post-secondary education such as algorithms, digital information, data analysis and much more. The learning revolved around reading notes or watching tutorial videos. What makes the tutorials on Khan Academy so unique is that users are able to interact with and modify directly the code that is being used live in the tutorials. Followed by these lessons are small challenges to ensure comprehension alongside the occasional quiz. At the end of each unit there is either a project or a test to really put the material to the test. Additionally, Khan Academy usually provides students with many additional resources at the end of each unit for those looking to broaden their knowledge. 

In terms of my personal experience with Khan Academy, I felt like it was overall positive as it has taught me the basics of computer science and programming to the point where I feel comfortable when trying to complete projects. For example, when switching over to FreeCodeCamp I felt like a decent amount of material covered especially in the Responsive Web Design module was review from Khan Academy. Additionally, I felt comfortable enough with my knowledge to easily follow along Professor Daniel Schiffman’s coding challenges such as the Timer Challenge as well as being able to design webpages using HTML templates. For this portfolio I used an HTML template but had to make dozens and dozens of modifications, but they were all easily done as I knew exactly how to make those changes. Such as knowing where to go in the CSS file to change a certain text size, font, etc. I definitely found the introductory courses rather straight forward but enjoyed how Khan Academy later offered more advancement versions of those basic courses such as Advancement JS in Games and Visualizations and Natural Simulations. I also felt like I was able to learn so much while completing projects as I was able to put the knowledge to practice. Another significantly important aspect of using Khan Academy was getting the chance to use object-oriented programming especially in the Natural Simulation projects. This allowed me to understand how to better design my programs more efficiently and allowed me to reuse and repurpose my code for the various Natural Simulations projects. 

## How can art help guide you through learning about programming and computer science?
Art is an extremely helpful tool when learning about programming and computer science as art is used to visual what is being done in computer science. For example, in the Intro the JS and Natural Simulations Khan Academy modules, the use of art is heavily employed to allow users to visualize what they are creating. It allows for a creativity when programming as users are able to create art while learning. It can also make the process of learning computer science more artistic instead of simply just reading about concepts and dealing with text and numbers. Therefore, creating a more engaging and interesting learning environment for programmers.

In my experience, I have found using art to be an effective tool in helping me learn about programming and computer science. In particular, I found art to be a great way to visualize some concepts discussed. For instance, in Natural Simulations while using the randomness and Perlin Noise functions, art was used often to display the different outcomes created from both. Building off that, I was able to easily understand the differences and use my knowledge when it came time to refactor my classmate’s coding challenge which involved Perlin Noise and art. I have also found art quite helpful when using object-oriented programming as it acts as a visual representation of how the different objects could be used such as in my Natural Simulations creature projects.

